---
layout: front
title: "Kodibox"
header: "/assets/img/project/grep/grepping.png"
cover: "/assets/img/project/grep/grep.png"
cover-active: "/assets/img/project/grep/grep.gif"
tags: unlisted

---
<h3>In Progress... </h3>
---

<h2 align="center">A sub £200 streaming solution</h2>
<h3>Weapon of choice:</h3>
<p><a href="https://kodi.tv/">Kodi</a></p>
<h3>Adapted from:</h3>
Media Experience's <a href="https://mediaexperience.com/raspberry-pi-xbmc-with-raspbmc/">Guide</a> to LibreELEC & Kodi on RBP4.
<h3>Summary:</h3>

Like many UK-based taxpayers, I don't like or need the TV license. For years I have been connecting my old Macbook to the television and using the 
contemporary streaming solutions - Netflix and the like. I decided to replace this solution with something a little smaller and more energy efficient: 
A Raspberry Pi (RBP from now on) running the popular open-source *Kodi* software and LibreELEC operating system. This isn't *much* of a project but I 
thought it would be useful to share a more condensed guide than the one linked above with some extra pieces of information I gained along the way...

Here's how to build a small media server for less than £200*:

<h3> Parts List: </h3>
1. A Raspberry Pi 3/4.
2. A RBP power-supply (~5V, 3A).
3. An on/off USB-C switch (optional).
4. A RBP case (optional).
5. An external HDD or SSD (optional).

<h3> How do? </h3>
1. 
2. If you're opting to use Kodi for media files (e.g. DVD rips), an external hard drive can be loaded up and connected to the RBP Kodi box. Ensure the 
drive is formatted to NTFS or ext4 or it won't be usable with the RBP.
3. 

<h3> Appendix: </h3>
\* This is a guide price that assumes an external drive is being used. I opted for a 5TB HDD which pushed the cost of this project up to ~£165. 
